---
layout: blog
title: "Git Basics" 
date: 2019-12-21

---

# git concepts

* repository: the "container" that tracks the changes (all the commits) to your project files.
* commit: a snapshot of your project files (working tree) at a time point.
* working tree (working directory): consists of files that you are currently working on.
* index (staging area): compares the files in the working tree to the files in the repo (the current commit).

                                                          
```
Untracked     |       Unmodified      |  Modified     |     Staged
| ---    git add ------------------------------------------->|
                                         | -- git add -----> |
                          |  -- edit  -----> |
                          | <--- git commit -----------------|
| <--- remove ------------|
```

# git commands

## inspect
* `git log` : show the list of commits
  * `git log --author=<user name>` : show the list of commits authored by the specified user.
* `git show` : show the changes in the current commit
  * `git show --stat` : show the files changed in the current commit
* `git diff: show what you've changed but not staged.
  * `git diff --staged`: show what you've staged.
* `git status`: it tells you what is your current commit. What files are staged? What files are modified but not staged? What files are untracked?
  * `git status -s`: show the short version of status



## modify
* `git add`: when a file is added, it is not tracked by git. For a untracked file, `git add` puts the file in track (in the working tree) and in the staging area. For a tracked and modified file, `git add` puts it in the staging area.
* `git checkout <commit_hash>`: checkout the commit. This mean, the HEAD will be
  * `git checkout -- <file>`: discard the change of <file>. To discard changes of all files. Use `git reset --hard`.
* `git commit`: create a new snapshot for staged changes. 
  * `git commit -a`: stage all modified files and commit them
* `git reset [<commit>]`: reset to the commit
  * `git reset --hard [<commit>]`: will discard all changes not commited.
* `git rm <file>`: remove file from both the file system and the working tree. equivalent to `rm <file> && git add .`
  * `git rm --cached <file>`: remove it from the repo but keep it in the file system (leave it untracked). 



## remote

* `git clone`: clone from a remote repo. two ways
  * https: `git clone https://github.com/<user>/<repository name>`
  * ssh: `git clone ssh://git@github.com/<user>/<repository name>.git`
* `git remote -v`: list all remote repos and their urls
* `git pull`: pull from the remote repo
* `git push`: push to the remote repo


# Reference
1. [https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/setting-up-a-repository](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/setting-up-a-repository)
1. [Git workflow](https://backlog.com/git-tutorial/git-workflow/)
1. [Git Documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc)
